---
title: "Important Note"
---

## Important Note

Here, I will explain a few things you need to know which will help you throughout the migration process.

::alert{type="danger"}
**❗Important Note:** Anything written in an alert is recommended to be read, as it contains crucial information regarding the migration process.
::

## navigateTo()

In you pages, stores, middleware, components you need to use `navigateTo()` util's function for programatically naviagtion instead of `this.$router.push('/investor/dashboard')` or `this.$router.replace('/investor/dashboard')`

::code-group
```js[Not Work]
navigateTo('PATH_HERE')
```
```js[100% Work]
return navigateTo('PATH_HERE')
// or
await navigateTo('PATH_HERE')
```
::

You must need to `return` or `await` the `navigateTo()` composable

## Interpolation for I18n

**NOTE:** There are few changes you need to make inside your `ar-SA.json`. In you json file you need check if there is any special character such as (!@#$#%\*&^). You need to use literal interpolation for special characters. See example below

::code-group

```json[Not Work]
"passwordDoesNotContainSpecialCharacters": "يجب أن تحتوي كلمة المرور على رمز مثل: (!,%&@#$^*?_().:;-).",
```

```js[100% Work]
"passwordDoesNotContainSpecialCharacters": "يجب أن تحتوي كلمة المرور على رمز مثل: {'(!,%&@#$^*?_().:;-).'}",
```

::

## Losing Reactivity

::alert{type="danger"}
**Note:** When you mutate the state in Pinia, there is one thing you need to take care of, because if you don't, it can cause you to lose reactivity.
::

When you destructure the Pinia state from the store and then assign a new value to the destructured state property, this change won't be reflected in the store. This is because when you destructure something, it creates a new memory address. So, when you assign a new value, the change is made to the new memory address and not to the address where the state lives.

Instead of creating a completely new variable, you can simply pass the reference of that state to a new variable during the destructuring process. By doing this, the newly created variable points to the same memory address where the state lives. Therefore, any changes made to the destructured variable will be reflected in the original state.

::code-group
```js[Not Work]
const { token } = useAuth()
token = 'RANDOM_STRING'
```
```js[100% Work]
const { token } = storeToRefs(useAuth())
token = 'RANDOM_STRING'
```

```js[Other Ways]
useRoot().token = 'RANDOM_STRING'
```
::

##
