## Migrating Patterns

::alert{type="warning"}
**NOTICE:** Some pattern maybe not be documented.
::

While migrating the `pages`, `components`, and `layouts`, I encountered some patterns that are quite challenging to convert. This difficulty arises from using the `script setup` syntax, which does not has the this keyword or provide direct access to the component instance.

I have compiled a list of patterns that can assist you in migrating smoothly, without encountering any blockers.

## Pattern #1

::block
```js[some_file.vue]
this.$refs.input.$refs.input.focus()
```
::

This pattern is particularly challenging to convert into the `script setup` syntax due to the absence of the `this` keyword. However, the advantage of using `script setup` in Vue is that it provides numerous built-in `composables` and a `compiler macro`. We can leverage one of these resources to implement the same functionality, albeit in a slightly different manner. Before proceeding, it is important to understand what this pattern accomplishes.

I want to draw your attention to a specific scenario. Let's consider a component called `MyInput`, which is used in a certain section of our Nuxt app. Our requirement is that when the page is mounted, the input should be in a focused state. To achieve this, we need to obtain the DOM reference for that particular input. In Vue, we typically use template refs to obtain such references. Therefore, our approach is to acquire the reference of that component and then retrieve the reference of the input element that resides within the `MyInput` component. Although our ultimate goal is to obtain the reference of the input element, it is important to first obtain the reference of the component itself, as the input element resides within the `MyInput` component.

See Example Below:

::code-group
```js[Myinput.vue]
<template>
   <input :ref="customRef" />
</template>

<script setup>
defineProps({
    customRef: {
        type: String,
        default: ''
    }
})

const instance = getCurrentInstance()

defineExpose({
    instance
})
</script>
```

```js[some_page.vue]
<template>
   <Myinput ref="myInput" custom-ref="myInput" />
</template>

<script setup>
const instance = getCurrentInstance()
onMounted(() => {
    instance.refs.myInput.instance.refs.myInput.focus()  
})
```

::

What we did essentially was first obtain the reference to the component and access its instance property. We expose this property through the `defineExpose` compiler macro. By accessing the instance property, we can then retrieve the input reference using the `refs` object provided by `getCurrentInstance`. You might wonder why we expose the instance through the `defineExpose` macro. The reason is that components using `<script setup>` are closed by default. This means that the public instance of the component, which is obtained via template refs or $parent chains, will not expose any of the bindings declared inside `<script setup>`.

## Pattern #2

::block
```js[some_file.vue]
$nuxt.$emit()
```
::

This is event bus which Vue gives us for child to parent communication. But unfortunately In Vue 3, Vue is not a constructor anymore, and `Vue.createApp({});` returns an object that has no `$on` and `$emit` methods.

::callout
#summary
Click Here for more information

#content
If you encounter `$nuxt.emit()` or `this.$nuxt.$on()`, both are related to the event bus. The `$nuxt.emit()` function is used to emit an event, and we can listen for this event using the `this.$nuxt.$on()` listener.

**NOTE:** This is the Nuxt 2 example. See below Nuxt 3 example
::

As I mentioned earlier, Vue is no longer a constructor, so we need to install the package in order to use the Event Bus in our app. Please run the following command in your terminal:

::block
```bash[bash]
npm i mitt
```
::

After that create a plugin `eventBus.js` and paste the following code

::block
```js[plugins/eventBus.js]
import mitt from "mitt";

const emitter = mitt();

export default defineNuxtPlugin(() => {
  return {
    provide: {
      bus: {
        on: emitter.on,
        emit: emitter.emit,
      },
    },
  };
});
```
::

### Usage

Emit the `eventBus` event

::code-group
```html[Nuxt 2]
<BankInfo
  :iban="portfolio.virtualAccountNumberIBAN"
  :account-balance="portfolio.virtual_account_balance"
  @open-wallet-to-bank="openWalletToBank"
  @open-deposit-modal="$nuxt.$emit('open-modal', modals.depositToBank)"
/>
```

```html[Nuxt 3]
<BankInfo
  :iban="portfolio.virtualAccountNumberIBAN"
  :account-balance="portfolio.virtual_account_balance"
  @open-wallet-to-bank="openWalletToBank"
  @open-deposit-modal="useNuxtApp().$bus.emit('open-modal', modals.depositToBank)"
/>
```
::

Listen the `eventBus` Event

::code-group
```html[Nuxt 2]
<template>
<BankDepositModal
    v-if="openedModal === modals.depositToBank"
/>
</template>

<script>
import { modals } from '~/constant/appConst'

export default {
  data: {
    return: {
      openedModal: '' 
    }
  },
  
  mounted() {
    this.$nuxt.$on('open-modal', (modalName) => {
      this.openedModal = modalName
    })
  }
}
</script>
```

```html[Nuxt 3]
<template>
<BankDepositModal
    v-if="openedModal === modals.depositToBank"
/>
</template>

<script setup>
import { modals } from '~/constant/appConst'

const openedModal = ref('')

onMounted(() => {
  useNuxtApp().$bus.on("open-modal", (modalName) => {
    openedModal.value = modalName;
  });
})
</script>

```
::

::alert{type="info"}
**Feel Stuck:** Just ping us on slack 😁
::

